For my birthday this year, I decided to
go on another solo trip to Switzerland
Switzerland was actually my first
ever international solo trip
I went for my 24th birthday 2 years ago,
and you may be wondering
why I never posted that vlog
Well, it's because it was a mess
To start off, I forgot all of my battery chargers,
I got sick on my first full day there,
my hotel room was infested
with bugs so I couldn't sleep,
there was a moment where I thought
I was about to get trafficked,
and I kept getting lost and missed every single
train transfer or bus that I had scheduled
Like I said, a mess
But that was when I was 24
This year I'm turning 26
I learned how to use public transportation
and I've been equipped with a fully
developed frontal lobe for a year now,
so this time, nothing can go wrong
Our journey starts at LAX
where I'm currently journaling
And that brings us to the first
mistake I wanted to correct this trip
Last time I flew to Switzerland, I had multiple
connecting flights, which was a nightmare
I missed one of my connecting flights,
I had to get off the airplane and
recheck my bag because apparently
if you're in another country for over 2
hours, then you have to recheck your bag–
You know what? I still don't
know how it works exactly,
but it was just very messy,
I got lost,
did not want to do that again
This time, I made sure to book a non-stop flight,
which, the only airline that flies direct
from LA to Switzerland is Swiss Airlines
My original flight was around $800,
but Swiss Airlines has a feature
where you can bid to upgrade
For context, a business class flight from LA
to Switzerland non-stop costs $7,000 one way
But with the bid upgrade, how it works is you bid
how much you'd be willing to pay for an upgrade
If your bid gets accepted, you pay that amount and
then you get to choose your business class seat
But if your bid doesn't get accepted,
you don't pay anything extra and
you just keep your original fare
It's risk- free and it's a really good way to get
a business class seat for a more affordable price
I slept for almost the entire flight,
which was great because we have a very
serious mission after the plane lands,
and that's to not get lost on the train
Last time, I got lost almost every single
time I used the public transportation
I don't know how I got lost going from
the airport to my hotel because it was
almost like a direct station, but I did
and I eventually had to call an Uber
So this time, I was determined to get it right
I got off at the right station this
time, but unfortunately I did still
get lost and turned a 10-minute walk into
a 30-minute walk. So baby steps, I guess.
Even though I got lost and turned a
10-minute walk into a 30 minute walk,
I still ended up walking the whole way
instead of calling an Uber. So proud of
myself for that. I look and smell like a
wet dog, so I'm going to take a shower.
Yay! I feel so much better
now. Bad bug check. All clear.
This hotel gave me little biscuits as
a gift. How cute. It's a little house.
I'm kind of nervous about tomorrow. It's
going to be a lot of trains and transfers.
I've been up since probably like 3 a.m. I woke
up and couldn't go back to sleep. This is my
outfit. I headed down for breakfast a little
bit too early, but this hotel actually has a
lot of community spaces, so it was a good time to
check out the room with free beverages. Should we
get water or soda? Oh, they have names. I
wonder if they have my name. Let's check.
They have a Jessica. David Nicholas. Jessica. Yay.
Jessica soda tastes better.
After a very sweet breakfast, it was time to head
to Mirin. I was so scared I'd be late for my train
that I got there too early. So early, in fact,
that I could take the earlier train. So, that's
what I ended up doing. I also got to ride in the
restaurant car for the first time, but the ride
was kind of rocky, so my coffee kept on spilling.
It made for a unique journal entry, though.
Last time going from Zurich to Grindleald, I
had missed all but one of my trains. 3 hours,
three trains, and a cable car later, we finally
made it to Mirin, and I didn't miss a single
transfer. This was major for me. I think my hotel
is right across from the train station. Well,
this is a car-free town, so there's no cars.
Stairs or ramp? We'll just take the stairs.
This is my room. Let's go out to the balcony.
This is for staying here for a
few nights. I'm going to unpack.
I didn't even realize how high up this place
is. Literally in the clouds. Like look at
outside the window. Do you see that? I'm like
inside of a cloud right now. Also, what I love
about the Swiss Alps is the tap water tastes
so good. It's like the freshest alpine water.
I think I definitely need to go to Coupe to pick
up some groceries and food because guys, the food
in Switzerland is crazy expensive. Personally, I
think Coupe tastes really good. I'm no foodie, but
the butter zop was my favorite thing that I got
in Switzerland last time. So, we're going to get
that today. And then I think we're going to do the
hike towards Gimmelwald. It's like an easy walk.
Hiking is very nice. Nor face
trail or going down to Gimmel.
that's in more an easier hike. I decided to stay
in Miran this time because it's a car-free town,
so it's less crowded and has more of a small town
feel. That's not to say it doesn't get crowded,
though. During the day, you'll see a lot of
tourists, but not many of them stay in the area,
so it's much quieter in the early mornings
and evenings. I was starving at this point,
so I stopped by Coupe. And look at how much bread
and cheese they have. The options are endless.
The walk to Gimmel Walt was very easy and
peaceful. It's all along a paved road,
so there's really not much to see aside from
the same mountain the whole way.
But even just that is beautiful.
Not bad. View is great though.
You can see a waterfall from here.
You can see the waterfall right there.
Such a beautiful trail to Gimmel.
At the end, you can take the cable car back to
Mirin or you can walk back the same way you came.
I made another stop at Coupe for a snack and
then I stumbled upon this gift shop. Honestly,
I really wish I had bought something
here. The plushy keychains are so cute.
Oh my god, Switzerland is not for the week.
God, how am I exhausted from just a walk?
Bed bug check.
Clear.
Today's a very exciting day because we're
doing the North Face Trail hike. So,
I woke up bright and early to get
breakfast. Mornings here are very
cloudy just cuz it's so high up, but
the clouds usually clear up around noon.
When I stepped out, I was struck to
see this cat staring at me. It was
so cute. And it started following me,
which I wasn't really sure why. So,
I stopped to pet it and of course, as soon as
I gave it some attention, it started walking
away. But it was so cute and it reminds me
of Kiki's delivery service with its red bow.
After saying goodbye to the
cat, it's time to head into
town to refill my water and grab a Red
Bull before heading to the trail head.
Now, you can see that there's nobody on this
trail, and that's probably the first red flag
I should have caught on to because this is
supposed to be a pretty popular trail. I
thought maybe it was too cloudy or early. People
just didn't feel like doing it at this time. No,
I was doing the alternate route, which is the
harder version that starts from the opposite
end. And I went on a 15-minute detour because I
thought that this gate meant private property is
not is the start or end of the trail. Um, slightly
alarming update. I'm lost. I took the wrong turn
somewhere. What the heck? I was right about it
being this road the first time. Oh, it's just
no bikes. This looks more like a trail now. This
trail was definitely more advanced than what I'm
used to. The first two hours were all basically
uphill and there are a lot of trickier areas with
slippery rocks. Also, another important thing to
note is if you do this trail backwards like I did,
it's going to be very empty. I think for
the first 2 to 3 hours I was on this trail,
I didn't see a single other person. So, if you're
planning on doing the trail by yourself, it's
nice to get some alone time, but also a little bit
scary in case anything goes wrong. There are also
a decent amount of signs for directions, but they
can be kind of confusing because there's so many
different trails. There are shorter versions of
trails that lead you to the same destination. So,
if you have a specific route you want to follow,
I would just route it on all trails and then use
that. Even though I got lost on this hike
like three times already, pushing through
and finding my way back, it feels even more
rewarding. So, I did the trail backwards. Wait,
am I supposed to turn that way? Around the
fourth or fifth time I got lost on this trail,
I just accepted my fate. Not to get lost
forever, but just to enjoy my surroundings
instead of fixating on whether I'm on the right
path or not. Like I said, there's so many signs,
so it's not like you're going to get lost
on the trail forever. And worst case,
I just retrace my steps and go backwards the way
the trail was supposed to be done. So yeah, I'm
trying to be a girl. Whatever girl. Who said this
trail was moderate on all trails? You're a liar.
It's 111.
Oh my god. Really need to check what
the other hikes I planned are cuz like
if that's moderate like the one I did at Lake
Bop that was easy. That's why I was like, "Oh,
I can do like a step above that." But no, if
they're all like this, I can't I can't do it.
Got this sandwich at Coop. It's an egg sandwich.
So, we'll see how it compares to Japan cuz I love
the Japanese egg sandwiches. It's not terrible,
but the Japanese ones are definitely better. Like
they don't give you much egg, I feel like.
So, the plan is eat Red Bull and then we're
going to head to La Brunan. This is the best Red
Bull flavor, by the way. If you haven't had it,
it reminds me of Yakultt. So good. Oh
my god, I see somebody gliding outside.
Honestly, I don't think I would do that again.
I did that last time when I went to Grindleald
and it was not my favorite. I also did it when it
was cloudy though. Also, when you do paragliding,
the way that you get off the ground, they pick
like a really high hill and then you guys run
off of the hill until the parachute picks up wind
and then it'll carry you off of the ground. So,
last time when I did it, the instructor that
I had was 6'4. I'm 411. It was so frustrating
to me because like when we were running off of
the hill, he was like yelling at me because I
wasn't able to run anymore. Because at a certain
point, you have to think about it. If he's 6'4,
I'm 4'11 and we're strapped into the
same height of a seat. At some point,
if his feet are on the ground, mine are not
on the ground anymore because we're running
off of the same incline. He was yelling at
me. He was like, "Run, run." I was like,
"I can't." Anyway, the parachute did end up
catching wind, but I was just so annoyed.
I'm walking around Loud Burning now. Look at
the waterfall. This is Stalach Falls. I think
I'm on the way to Tremolak. It's actually a
pretty long walk. It's like 45 minutes. But
the walk is pretty nice. It's just like one
road that you walk down for the whole time.
Little baby kitty. So, I didn't end up actually
going to Tremble Falls. I turned around because
I was getting so overstimulated. La Brunin is
beautiful, but it's so crowded and there's so
many cars. And because this is just one road with
people walking on both sides, you always have to
check behind you for cars. Still, it was a very
beautiful walk. So, if I were to visit again,
I'd probably try to go earlier in the morning
to skip the crowds. This is bad. I can barely
walk normally. Oh my god, I'm so sore. Tomorrow's
plan was to go to Lake Oen Chini. Um, that hike,
but that one also says moderate. I mainly wanted
to swim, but I'm still on my period, so we'll see.
So, change of plans. This morning has been a mess
because one of the trains are down that heads to
Interlockan, which is the central like place that
connects all of the places I wanted to go to. So,
instead, we're going to go to Wingen and or Wingen
and then go to Grindlevald after. I had to change
my outfit and rewear this top because I can't
wear the stuff that I was planning to wear to
the ocean and lake. I went to Grindleva last time,
but I haven't been to Ven. So hopefully it's nice.
Van's a small quiet town. Honestly, I don't
know if it's the time that I went, but there
really wasn't much to do there. But from here, you
can go up to Main, which is also the connect to
Grindlevald. And despite not being planned, main
ended up being one of the highlights of my trip.
There's two lakes and hiking trails, and
I see a bunch of cows down there. So,
this is like I mean, I can't say it's
better than Ocean Lake cuz I've never been,
but this is pretty pretty cool. Oh
my god. Do you see that first cow?
See, I did that.
kind terminal which is final
station Grindlevald. Grindleald
going to take the bus, but it's
such a nice I think I'll just
walk. It's a 40-minute walk to Fierce
One, which is where I stayed last time.
Yes, I caved and went to a restaurant. And this
was probably the biggest mistake I made the entire
trip. First of all, I made the mistake of not
asking for tap water. I just asked for water. So,
they charged me by the glass and that one glass of
water you just saw me drink costed $3. Mind you,
tastes just like tap water because the
tap water here tastes phenomenal. Also,
this wasn't really their fault because they can't
really do anything about it. It's outdoors at
summertime, but there were so many flies here.
Just not the best experience, especially like
I knew I was paying $50 for this meal, so I just
wanted it to be like a nice outdoor experience,
and I was just getting attacked by flies the
entire time. By the time I was done eating,
I was feeling quite defeated. So, I decided
to just head straight back to the hotel.
And this is the spa and relaxation
area. I don't think anybody uses it,
though. Back there is the gym. I hadn't
really had time to explore this hotel,
but they had recently done renovations and added
this spa area, which I ended up really liking. So,
I spent some time here relaxing and
unwinding before heading to bed.
I woke up feeling a little bit sick,
but today's a very exciting day because
we're heading to Zerat. Okay, we're
checking out. Say bye to this view.
Two, four, five.
Wait, this is nicer than I was expecting.
Sitting area and then a second little desk
here. And then here are the closets. Honestly,
this is a lot more spacious than I was expecting
it to be. Here is where the coffee bar is and the
fridge. Let's see if we have a view of the matter.
And it's so clear today,
so you can see it. Wow. So,
a pretty large balcony. I'm
excited to take pictures here.
Bathroom.
Should I have one of these apples or a tollone?
You know what? I'm going to make this the healthy
decision. Also, if you stay here, make sure to ask
for the free pickup service. They'll pick you
up at the train station and take your luggage.
Last time I stayed in Switzerland, they had
that service at one of the hotels I stayed at,
but I was like, it's only a 10-minute
walk. I'm just going to walk it. And it
was a very difficult walk. And it's very steep
up the hill once you get to the hotel. Already
dealing with the consequences of carrying
that suitcase all the time. So, this room,
I actually booked it with my Chase travel points.
So, if you have like a Chase uh travel card,
the one I have is the Chase Sapphire Reserve. I'm
not going to bore you with the speech about credit
card points, but the reason why I mentioned it
is because whenever I can, I book hotels through
Chase's travel portal. Their selection of hotels
is so much more curated than Google's results,
so I find they're always nicer than expected.
For example, here's the room I booked in Zurich
last time through Chase. It was way nicer than I
was expecting, especially since rooms in the city
tend to be smaller. Chase also partners with some
of the hotels to give you a room upgrade and or
hotel credit at some of the properties, but that's
only if you book through their travel portal. So
this is the hotel I booked, Resort Linabel, and
you can pay with your card or in points. In the
Swiss Alps, I always try to book a hotel with a
balcony because it's so beautiful here. So having
a balcony is like really worth it. But yeah, I
didn't know I was getting a view of the Matter
Horn. Sunscreen has been reapplied. I just touched
up some of my makeup and now we're going to go.
Keep going.
Excellent.
Who says to walk through here?
Let's go across very carefully.
chocolate. This one I saw another guy got
it and um apparently there's a coffee thing
inside so I wanted to try it. And then Coop
is right next door. Oh, this is so cute.
This is my favorite.
is so good.
Figure out how to use the coffee
maker so I can get some boiling water.
Oh,
especially since I'm sick. I think this is
going to hit the spot. Literally five stars.
Good morning. It's my birthday. Look at the matter
hornet. It's even prettier in the morning. Wow. I
wanted to wear my FP movement. This is like the
perfect hiking jacket. Actually, I'm going to
layer it with the matching long sleeve of this.
And the hood is like a perfect circle. Cute, huh?
I like this one. This ones. Okay, perfect. It's
important your hand go like in 90°. Your hand.
Yeah, like this. 90°. It's important. And
one backpack. One backpack. Yay. Thank you.
Batteries. A battery pack. Walking to the station
now. I think I can make the 821 with my outfit.
The reason why I'm rushing is because you
want to get to the first lake of the Five
Lakes hike in Zerat. Pretty early in the
morning if you want to see the reflection
of the Matter Horn in the lake later in
the day. There's just too many people,
so there's people throwing rocks, dogs
getting in the water, the wind picks up,
you just will not be able to see the reflection.
So, it's best to get there as early as possible.
This one's going to take us straight up to the
lake where we will see a reflection. And I hope
it's not too late in the day. It's I mean the
first finicular leaves at 8. It's currently
8:40. Hope we make it there. And then perhaps
once we get there, we'll go on a hike or two.
this way.
Guess this is a popular trail.
There a lot of signs for it,
which is good because I get lost easily.
I realized I was on the wrong trail pretty
early on this time. It was getting really steep.
And like the North Face Trail, I saw
online that this one was familyfriendly,
so I knew something was wrong.
Ah, there's the first lake.
I caught up with this German couple who also
took the wrong route, and they were so nice,
they offered to take these videos for me.
Finally, after an hour, we made it to Stellisee.
And yes, there was still a reflection.
Not a bad lunch view.
At around 11 something is when
there's no more reflection.
I need to recover as soon as possible.
I do not want to be like this on the
airplane. Look at that final floor. Let's
take some birthday photos. How beautiful.
This is our side of the balcony.
Woohoo!
Where the heck am I? We found it. I know I made
a big fuss about eating out in Switzerland,
but it's my birthday, so I had to book a dinner.
Having meals and eating out is
actually one of the few things I
do not enjoy doing by myself. Maybe
it's because I'm not a huge foodie,
so going out and trying new foods by myself
isn't something I would normally enjoy doing. So,
I did feel the weight of being alone more
in this moment. Yeah, I think this is the
first time on this trip where I actually felt
lonely. But, it was a great meal nonetheless.
Let's go exploring. I saw some
souvenirs I wanted to look at.
Saw these on the trail today.
See how much they are.
$8.90. I think that's like $10. I want
though. Oh, there's a black nose sheep.
Thank you.
Since I'm 26 now, I realized I won't be able
to eat whatever I want for much longer. So,
I treated myself to whatever pastries
I wanted to try at breakfast. You're
literally going for all the pastries.
Where's your protein, bro? A donut.
You're eating just some pastries. Jambling.
It's my last day in Switzerland, so I decided
to try my luck at finding the blacknose sheep.
The shepherd has been sick for the past 2
days, so nobody's been able to see them,
but you can track them online. And I
saw they were active between Riffle
Alp and Riffleberg. So I bought a ticket to
Riffleberg. They seem to be closer to Riffle,
though, so I got off a station earlier. got
off at Riffle Alp and the hunt for the sheep
begins. Honestly though, this map hasn't
been updated since like an hour ago. So,
I hope there's still somewhere in this area.
It's pretty surreal hiking, seeing stuff like
this. This hotel's so pretty. Perhaps I should
have stopped in Riffleberg so I could hike
down. I decided I'm just going to walk straight
back to the station, take it up to Riffleberg,
and hike down cuz since the train goes up all the
way to Gornot, if you get off early, you have to
hike up. If you get off at the next stop, you
hike down. So, we're going to do the downhill
hike. I also didn't realize this was an actual
hike. So, I do have the hiking backpack today,
but my outfit is not really giving hiking. It's
giving she wanted to take pictures with the sheep.
Yeah, I honestly don't know how I do it, but
as soon as I got off at the next station,
I started going the wrong way again. But this is
when I discovered a new hiking hack. You find two
people who look like they know what they're doing
and then you just try your best to keep up with
them. This trail is mostly made of very smooth
rocks and I learned you don't want to step on
top of them. You want to step on like a corner
because they're very sandy so they get very
slippery. There they are. I did get off a station
too early, but technically I didn't get lost. So,
they usually recommend you come earlier in the
morning. That's usually when the sheep are the
most friendly. I came in the afternoon,
so they were all a little tired. Most of
them were pressing their face against a
rock. Even though it wasn't super sunny,
they do this to cool down because they have that
iconic black nose that gets really hot in the sun.
Fighting.
We came from all the way up there.
It's getting late and I still need to head
back to Zurich. So, it's time to head back
to town and grab some chocolates. On the walk
back, I saw another street cat. And the cat
says Switzerland are so friendly. This one was so
cute. I was so tempted to take her home with me.
And with that, my Switzerland doover trip has
come to an end. So, the main takeaway is that
I am still very much directionally challenged. No,
but actually, I set out on this trip to fix all my
mistakes for my last trip so that I could create
the perfect version of it. And then, of course,
things still went wrong. But strangely, in those
moments where I got lost, I got sick, the train
stopped running, I really started developing more
confidence and trust in myself. In my daily life,
I'm not much of an adventurer or somebody who
takes risks, and I get frustrated when I don't get
things right the first time. But whenever I solo
travel, I'm forced to deal with these situations,
and I realize how capable I am. Even though I got
lost so many times on this trip, I was also able
to find my way back all those times. So maybe
more important than always getting everything
right is trusting yourself enough to know that
even when things fall apart, you'll figure it out.
Shine, baby, would I still be your lover?
Would you want me there if the moon went
dark tonight? And if it all ended tomorrow,
would I be the one on your mind? Oh my mind.
And if it all ended tomorrow, would I be the one?